Docs/simplify index pages (#3995)
514-labs/moose: apps/framework-docs-v2/content/moosestack/streaming/index.mdx

---
title: Moose Streams

> description: Add continuous ingest and event processing around Moose OLAP with Kafka or Redpanda-backed streams

Reviewer: Nice, not Passive!

<LanguageTabs>
  <LanguageTabContent value="typescript">
```ts filename="app/stream.ts" copy
import { Stream } from "@514labs/moose-lib";
import { table } from "./table";

interface Record {
  id: string;
  name: string;
  timestamp: Date;
}

export const stream = new Stream<Record>("stream", {
  destination: table,
  version: "0.0",
});
```
  </LanguageTabContent>
  <LanguageTabContent value="python">
```py filename="app/stream.py" copy
from datetime import datetime

from moose_lib import Stream, StreamConfig
from pydantic import BaseModel

from app.table import table

class Record(BaseModel):
    id: str
    name: str
    timestamp: datetime

stream = Stream[Record]("stream", config=StreamConfig(
    destination=table,
    version="0.0",
))
```
  </LanguageTabContent>
</LanguageTabs>

Most Moose projects start by defining an OLAP table, then attach a stream when they need continuous ingest or real-time processing before data becomes queryable in ClickHouse.

<Callout type="info" title="Enable Moose Streams before defining streams">

> Turn on `features.streaming_engine` in `moose.config.toml` before you create stream resources or attach them to OLAP tables.

Reviewer: isn't it on by defualt?

</Callout>

> ```toml filename="moose.config.toml"

Reviewer: should we mention the path?

[features]
streaming_engine = true
```

> <CTACards columns={1}>

Reviewer: This feels decontextualized / out of sort with the above

  <CTACard
    title="You already have an OLAP table"
    description="Start here if you already modeled the ClickHouse table and want stream data to land in it."
    ctaLink="/moosestack/streaming/sync-to-table"
    ctaLabel="Sync to table →"
    orientation="horizontal"
  />
  <CTACard
    title="You need to define storage first"
    description="Start with Moose OLAP if you need to model the ClickHouse table before adding stream ingest."
    ctaLink="/moosestack/olap/model-table"
    ctaLabel="Model an OLAP table →"
    orientation="horizontal"
  />
</CTACards>

## What can you do with Moose Streams?

### Define streams

- **[Define a stream](/moosestack/streaming/create-stream)** with a typed payload backed by a Kafka or Redpanda topic

### Send records

> The deciding question is where the producer runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pattern for sending data to a `Stream` depends on where the producer runs.
```
